how to use blazor wasm with odata client (#169)
MicrosoftDocs/OData-docs: Odata-docs/client/using-blazor-wasm-with-odata-client.md

---
title: "Blazor Wasm with OData Client"
description: "How to use blazor with odata client"

author: ElizabethOkerio
ms.author: elokerio
ms.date: 1/18/2021
ms.topic: article
 
---

> # How To Use Blazor Web Assembly with OData Client 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# How To Use Blazor WebAssembly with OData Client 
```

Author: fixed

**Applies To**: [!INCLUDE[appliesto-odataclient](../includes/appliesto-odataclient-v7.md)]

## Getting Started
Start by creating a Blazor WebAssembly project.

> Open Visual Studio and click on "Create a new project" then select the "Blazor App template" and click "Next". Configure your project by providing the project name and the location path then click "Create". On the "Create Project" Page that appears, specify the target framework that you want to use and select "Blazor WebAssembly App" then click "Create". A blazor web assembly project will be created like below. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open Visual Studio and click on "Create a new project" then select the "Blazor App template" and click "Next". Configure your project by providing the project name and the location path then click "Create". On the "Create Project" Page that appears, specify the target framework that you want to use and select "Blazor WebAssembly App" then click "Create". A Blazor WebAssembly project will be created like below. 
```

Author: fixed

> Open Visual Studio and click on "Create a new project" then select the "Blazor App template" and click "Next". Configure your project by providing the project name and the location path then click "Create". On the "Create Project" Page that appears, specify the target framework that you want to use and select "Blazor WebAssembly App" then click "Create". A blazor web assembly project will be created like below. 

Reviewer 2: My suggestion would be to convert this paragraph into an ordered or unordered list so it's easier to follow

![SAMPLE BLAZOR WEB ASSEMBLY PROJECT](../assets/2021-02-02-blazor-wasm-app-sample.png)

> There are two ways in which you can use OData Client with blazor web assembly: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two ways in which you can use OData Client with Blazor WebAssembly: 
```

Author: fixed

* You can use the Microsoft OData Connected Service
* You can use plain-old C# objects (POCOs)

## Using Microsoft OData Connected Service

> Add OData Connected service to the project you just created above. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add OData Connected Service to the project you just created above. 
```

Author: fixed

> To do so, ensure that you have the Microsoft OData Connected Service extension installed. Refer to this link [Microsoft OData Connected Service](/odata/connectedservice/getting-started/) on how to get started with Microsoft OData Connected Service.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To do so, ensure that you have the Microsoft OData Connected Service extension installed. [Refer to this link](/odata/connectedservice/getting-started/) to find out how to get started with Microsoft OData Connected Service.
```

> Right click on your project and add a connected service. Select the Microsoft OData Connected Service that you installed and use the Wizard to generate proxy classes for the OData endpoint that you want to use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Right click on your project and add a Connected Service. Select the Microsoft OData Connected Service that you installed and use the Wizard to generate proxy classes for the OData endpoint that you want to use.
```

Author: fixed

> Once all this is done, Open any of the Blazor razor pages that you want to display data from an OData endpoint on and include the code below on the `OnInitializedAsync` method.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once all this is done, open any of the Blazor Razor pages from which you want to display data from an OData endpoint and include the code below in the `OnInitializedAsync` method.  
```

Author: I don't think you can use from which here.. maybe on which

Reviewer 3: What about: open any of the Blazor razor pages where data from the OData endpoint should be displayed. Then, include the below in the `OnInitializeAsync` method.

```c#
Uri serviceRoot = new Uri("https://localhost:44353/odata");

> var dataserviceContect = new Default.Container(serviceRoot);
> dataserviceContect.HttpRequestTransportMode = HttpRequestTransportMode.HttpClient;
> var result = await dataserviceContect.Books.ExecuteAsync();

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
var dataServiceContext = new Default.Container(serviceRoot);
dataServiceContext.HttpRequestTransportMode = HttpRequestTransportMode.HttpClient;
var result = await dataServiceContext.Books.ExecuteAsync();
```

```

> You can then display the data however you want on your razor pages.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can then display the data however you want on your Razor pages.  
```

Author: fixed

## Using plain-old C# objects (POCOs)

If you do not wish to use Microsoft Odata Connected Service or any code generation tools, then you create the `DataServiceContext` like below: 

```c#

> public partial class ODataServiceContext : DataServiceContext

Reviewer 3: I think it would be helpful to mention which namespace to include in order to get `DataServiceContext`.

{
    public Connector(Uri serviceRoot) : base(serviceRoot)
    {
        HttpRequestTransportMode = HttpRequestTransportMode.HttpClient;

        this.Books = base.CreateQuery<Book>("Books");
        this.Format.LoadServiceModel = () => GetEdmModel();
        this.Format.UseJson();
    }

    private IEdmModel GetEdmModel()
    {
        ODataConventionModelBuilder builder = new ODataConventionModelBuilder();
        //builder.EntitySet
        builder.EntitySet<Book>("Books").EntityType.HasKey(p => p.Id).Count().Select().Page(null, 100).Expand().Filter();

        return builder.GetEdmModel();
    }

    public DataServiceQuery<Book> Books { get; }
}
```

> Then on the `OnInitializedAsync` method in any of the razor pages add the code below to get data from an endpoint for example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then in the `OnInitializedAsync` method in any of the Razor pages add the code below to get data from an endpoint. For example:
```

Author: solved

```c# 

> var dataserviceContect = new Connector(new Uri("https://localhost:44353/odata"));
> var result = await dataserviceContect.Books.ExecuteAsync();

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
var dataServiceContext = new Connector(new Uri("https://localhost:44353/odata"));
var result = await dataServiceContext.Books.ExecuteAsync();
```

* You can use plain-old C# objects (POCOs)

## Using Microsoft OData Connected Service

Add OData Connected Service to the project you just created above. 

To do so, ensure that you have the Microsoft OData Connected Service extension installed. Refer to this link [Microsoft OData Connected Service](/odata/connectedservice/getting-started/) to find out how get started with Microsoft OData Connected Service.
Right click on your project and add a Connected Service. Select the Microsoft OData Connected Service that you installed and use the Wizard to generate proxy classes for the OData endpoint that you want to use.

Once all this is done, open any of the Blazor Razor pages on which you want to display data from an OData endpoint and include the code below in the `OnInitializedAsync` method.  

The use of the below syntax is possible with `Microsoft.OData.Client v7.8.1` and above. 

```c#
Uri serviceRoot = new Uri("https://localhost:44353/odata");
var dataServiceContect = new Default.Container(serviceRoot);
dataServiceContect.HttpRequestTransportMode = HttpRequestTransportMode.HttpClient;
var result = await dataServiceContect.Books.ExecuteAsync();
```

> You can then display the data however you want on your Razor pages.  

Reviewer 2: In the [section below](https://github.com/MicrosoftDocs/OData-docs/pull/169/files#diff-0295219f7f0d0c74c67044e3d2144690c7261a6bee0611c1b14be57eff79a424R85) you iterate through `result` and render `Author` and `ISBN`. Maybe you could do the same here...

## Using plain-old C# objects (POCOs)

> If you do not wish to use Microsoft Odata Connected Service or any code generation tools, then you create the `DataServiceContext` like below: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you do not wish to use Microsoft OData Connected Service or any code generation tools, then you create the `DataServiceContext` like below: 
```

The `DataServiceContext` class is found in the `Microsoft.OData.Client` namespace.

```c#
public partial class ODataServiceContext : DataServiceContext
{

>     public Connector(Uri serviceRoot) : base(serviceRoot)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    public ODataServiceContext(Uri serviceRoot) : base(serviceRoot)
```

Author: fixed

    {
        HttpRequestTransportMode = HttpRequestTransportMode.HttpClient;

        this.Books = base.CreateQuery<Book>("Books");
        this.Format.LoadServiceModel = () => GetEdmModel();
        this.Format.UseJson();
    }

    private IEdmModel GetEdmModel()
    {
        ODataConventionModelBuilder builder = new ODataConventionModelBuilder();

>         //builder.EntitySet

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

        builder.EntitySet<Book>("Books").EntityType.HasKey(p => p.Id).Count().Select().Page(null, 100).Expand().Filter();

        return builder.GetEdmModel();
    }

    public DataServiceQuery<Book> Books { get; }
}
```

Then in the `OnInitializedAsync` method in any of the Razor pages add the code below to get data from an endpoint. For example:
```c# 

> var dataServiceContect = new Connector(new Uri("https://localhost:44353/odata"));

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
var dataServiceContect = new ODataServiceContext(new Uri("https://localhost:44353/odata"));
```

var result = await dataServiceContect.Books.ExecuteAsync();

foreach (var book in result)
{
    Console.WriteLine(book.Author);
    Console.WriteLine(book.ISBN);

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

---
title: "Blazor WebAssembly with OData Client"
description: "How to use Blazor with OData Client"

author: ElizabethOkerio
ms.author: elokerio
ms.date: 1/18/2021
ms.topic: article
 
---
# How to use Blazor WebAssembly with OData Client 
**Applies To**: [!INCLUDE[appliesto-odataclient](../includes/appliesto-odataclient-v7.md)]

## Getting Started
Start by creating a Blazor WebAssembly project. Follow the following steps to create a Blazor WebAssembly project. 

* Open Visual Studio and click on "Create a new project".
* On the window that appears, select the "Blazor App" tempate and click "Next". 
* On the "Configure your project" page, configure your project by providing the project name and the location path then click "Create".
* Finally on the "Create Project" page, specify the target framework that you want to use and select "Blazor WebAssembly App" then click "Create". 

A Blazor Web Assembly project will be created like below. 

![SAMPLE BLAZOR WEB ASSEMBLY PROJECT](../assets/2021-02-02-blazor-wasm-app-sample.png)

There are two ways in which you can use OData Client with Blazor WebAssembly: 

* You can use the Microsoft OData Connected Service

> * You can use plain-old C# objects (POCOs)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* You can use Plain Old CLR Objects (POCOs)
```

## Using Microsoft OData Connected Service

Add OData Connected Service to the project you just created above. 

To do so, ensure that you have the Microsoft OData Connected Service extension installed. Refer to this link [Microsoft OData Connected Service](/odata/connectedservice/getting-started/) to find out how to get started with Microsoft OData Connected Service.
Right click on your project and add a Connected Service. Select the Microsoft OData Connected Service that you installed and use the Wizard to generate proxy classes for the OData endpoint that you want to use.

Once all this is done, open any of the Blazor Razor pages on which you want to display data from an OData endpoint and include the code below in the `OnInitializedAsync` method.  

The use of the below syntax is possible with `Microsoft.OData.Client v7.8.1` and above. 

```c#
Uri serviceRoot = new Uri("https://localhost:44353/odata");
var dataServiceContext = new Default.Container(serviceRoot);

> dataServiceContext.HttpRequestTransportMode = HttpRequestTransportMode.HttpClient;

Reviewer 4: Why is this necessary? Maybe add a comment

> Uri serviceRoot = new Uri("https://localhost:44353/odata");
> var dataServiceContect = new Default.Container(serviceRoot);
> dataServiceContect.HttpRequestTransportMode = HttpRequestTransportMode.HttpClient;
> var result = await dataServiceContect.Books.ExecuteAsync();

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Uri serviceRoot = new Uri("https://localhost:44353/odata");
var dataServiceContext = new Default.Container(serviceRoot);
dataServiceContext.HttpRequestTransportMode = HttpRequestTransportMode.HttpClient;
var result = await dataServiceContext.Books.ExecuteAsync();
```

foreach (var book in result)
{
    Console.WriteLine(book.Author);
    Console.WriteLine(book.ISBN);
}
```
You can then display the data however you want on your Razor pages.  

> ## Using plain-old C# objects (POCOs)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Using Plain Old CLR objects (POCOs)
```

> If you do not wish to use Microsoft OData Connected Service or any code generation tools, then you create the `DataServiceContext` like the example below: 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If you prefer to not use Microsoft OData Connected Service or any code generation tools, then you can create the `DataServiceContext` as in the example below:
```

The `DataServiceContext` class is found in the `Microsoft.OData.Client` namespace.

```c#
public partial class ODataServiceContext : DataServiceContext
{
    public ODataServiceContext(Uri serviceRoot) : base(serviceRoot)
    {
        HttpRequestTransportMode = HttpRequestTransportMode.HttpClient;

        this.Books = base.CreateQuery<Book>("Books");
        this.Format.LoadServiceModel = () => GetEdmModel();
        this.Format.UseJson();
    }

    private IEdmModel GetEdmModel()
    {
        ODataConventionModelBuilder builder = new ODataConventionModelBuilder();
        builder.EntitySet<Book>("Books").EntityType.HasKey(p => p.Id).Count().Select().Page(null, 100).Expand().Filter();
        return builder.GetEdmModel();
    }

    public DataServiceQuery<Book> Books { get; }
}
```

Then in the `OnInitializedAsync` method in any of the Razor pages add the code below to get data from an endpoint. For example:
```c# 

> var dataServiceContect = new ODataServiceContext(new Uri("https://localhost:44353/odata"));
> var result = await dataServiceContect.Books.ExecuteAsync();

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
var dataServiceContext = new ODataServiceContext(new Uri("https://localhost:44353/odata"));
var result = await dataServiceContext.Books.ExecuteAsync();
```
